Q1) Difference between IASS PASS and SASS?
Ans: 
			IASS: 													PASS										SASS

1.	Infrastructure as a services.						1. Platform as a services						1. Software as a service

2.	IAAS is used by network architects.					2. PAAS is used by developer.					2. It is used by end users

3.	IAAS give access to the resources like 				3. PAAS give access to run time 				3. SAAS give access to the end user.
	virtual machines and virtual storage.				   environment to deployment and 
														   development tools for application. 
														   
4. 	It is popular between developer and 				4. It popular between developer 				4. it is popular betw0een consumer 							
	researchers.										   who focus on the development of 					and company
														   apps and scripts.
	
	
Q2) What is AWS Region? 
Ans: Which is a physical location around the world where we cluster data centers.

Q3)What is an availability zone?
Ans: AZ's are one or more decreate data centers with redundant power,networking and connectivity in aws region.

Q4) What are the ways in which we can access aws ?
Ans: 1. AWS console (by using username and password when we are going to crete account) 
	 2. AWScli: Command line interface (It is accessed by using access key and secutity key) 
	 3. SDK :   Software development kit (It is a collection of softwares used for developing applications for a specific device or operating system)

Q5) What is an IAM?

Ans: IAM is a identity and access managemnet: it is a framework of business process, policies and technologies that facilitate the management
	 of electroninc and digital identity. 
	 
Q6) What is a policy? 
Ans: A policy is an object in AWS that, when associated with an identity or resource,defines their permissions. 
	 AWS evaluates these policies when an IAM user or role makes a request. 
	 Permissions in the policies determine whether the request is allowed or denied.
	 AWS supports six types of policies: 
	 1. identity-based policies, 
	 2. resource-based policies, 
	 3. permissions boundaries, 
	 4. Organizations SCPs, 
	 5. ACLs, and 
	 6. session policies.
	 
Q7) Difference between customer managed policy and aws managed policy? 
Ans: 
				Customer policies						                  				AWS managed policies	
							
	1.  A Customer Managed Policy is a standalone 							1.   A Managed Policy is an IAM policy which is 
		policy that you create and administer inside 							 created and administered by AWS.
		your own AWS account.
		
	2.	You can attach this policy to multiple users,						2.  A AWS Managed Policy can be attached to multiple 
		groups, and roles; but only within your own account.					users, groups, or roles within the same AWS account 
																				and across different accounts.
		
	3.  In this we can assign approprate permission 						3.  These AWS-provided policies allow you to assign 
		to the users, groups and roles											appropriate permissions to your users, groups, and 
																				roles without having to write the policy yourself.
