Q1) What is aws cloud trial?
Ans: cloudtrail is auditing tool which is used to records user and api activity on aws resources.

Q2) What are the benefits of cloud trail?
Ans: CloudTrail helps you prove compliance, improve security posture, and consolidate activity records across regions and accounts. 
	 CloudTrail provides visibility into user activity by recording actions taken on your account. 
	 CloudTrail records important information about each action, including who made the request, the services used, the actions performed, 
	 parameters for the actions, and the response elements returned by the AWS service. 
	 
Q3) Does the CloudTrail Event History show all account activity within my account?
Ans) AWS CloudTrail will only show the results of the CloudTrail Event History for the current region you are viewing for the last 90 days,
	 For a complete record of account activity, including all management events, data events, and read-only activity, you must configure a CloudTrail trail.

Q4) What search filters can I use to view my account activity?
Ans: You can specify Time range and one of the following attributes: 
	 Event name, 
	 User name, 
	 Resource name, 
	 Event source, 
	 Event ID, and 
	 Resource type.
	
Q5) What additional cloud trail features are available by creating our own trails?
Ans) Set up a CloudTrail trail to deliver your CloudTrail events to Amazon S3, Amazon CloudWatch Logs, and Amazon CloudWatch Events. 
	 This enables you to leverage features to help archive, analyze, and respond to changes in your AWS resources.
	 
Q6) Are API calls made from the AWS Management Console recorded?
Ans: Yes. CloudTrail records API calls made from any client. The AWS Management Console, AWS software development kits (SDKs), 
	 command line tools, and higher-level AWS services call AWS APIs, so these calls are recorded.
	 
Q7) How many trails can i setup in an aws region?
Ans: You can create up to five trails in an AWS region. A trail that applies to all regions exists in each region and is counted as one trail in each region.

Q8) Difference between data events and management events?
Ans: Management events: Management operations performed on AWS
	 data events: ou can now record all API actions on S3
	 Objects and receive detailed information such as the AWS account of the caller, IAM user role
	 of the caller, time of the API call, IP address of the API, and other details
	 
Q9) What is Amazon s3 data events? How do i record  them? 
Ans: Amazon S3 data events represent API activity on Amazon S3 Objects. 
	 To get CloudTrail to record these actions, you specify a S3 bucket in the data events section when creating a new trail or modifying an existing one. 
	 
Q10) What are cloud trail insights events?
Ans: AWS CloudTrail Insights helps AWS users identify and respond to unusual activity associated with write API calls.

Q11) What is a cloud watch? 
Ans: Amazon CloudWatch is a monitoring service for AWS cloud resources and the applications you run on AWS.

Q12) How do you monitor a vpc using cloud watch?
Ans: VPC Flow logs can capture IP traffic flow information for the network interfaces associated with your resources. 

Q13) What is Amazon cloud watch logs? 
Ans: Amazon CloudWatch Logs lets you monitor and troubleshoot your systems and applications using your existing system, application and custom log files.
	 For example, you could set an alarm on the number of errors that occur in your system logs, 
	 You can view the original log data to see the source of the problem.


Q14) How long does  logs are stored in cloud watch? 
Ans: By default, CloudWatch Logs will store your log data indefinitely. You can change the retention for each Log Group at any time.

Q15) What can i measure with Amazon cloud watch metrics? 
Ans: Metrics are provided automatically for a number of AWS products and services, 
	 including Amazon EC2 instances,
	 EBS volumes,
	 DynamoDB tables, 
	 Auto Scaling groups,
	 
Q15) Can we delete any metrics in cloud watch? 
Ans) CloudWatch does not support metric deletion. 
	 Metrics expire based on the retention schedules.
	 
Q16) Can i access the metrics for a terminated instance?
Ans: Yes. CloudWatch stores metrics for terminated EC2 instances for 15 months.

Q17) What types of cloud watch alaram we can set? 
Ans: You can create an alarm to monitor 
	 you can create alarms on an Amazon EC2 instance CPU utilization, DynamoDB table throughput, SQS queue length, s3 services.


Q18) What actions can i take from a cloud watch alaram?
Ans: When you create an alarm, you can configure it to perform one or more automated actions when the metric you chose to monitor exceeds a threshold you define.
	 For example, you can set an alarm that sends you an email, publishes to an SQS queue, 
	 stops or terminates an Amazon EC2 instance, or executes an Auto Scaling policy. 
	 
Q19) What is cloud watch events?
Ans: Amazon CloudWatch Events (CWE) is a stream of system events describing changes in your AWS resources. 
	 provide a more complete picture of the health and state of your applications. 
	 
Q20) What is the difference between cloud watch and cloud trial?
Ans:     Cloudwatch                                                             Cloudtrail 

		1. It is a monitoring tool 											1. It is a auditing tool
		2. It is used to monitor the resources of aws account 				2. It is used to track the user and API usage 
		3. we can monitor in terms of matric, logs,alarms, events 			3. we can audit based on event history and by creating trails.
		
Q21) Which service in AWS can we use for real time monitoring?
Ans: cloud watch log used for real time monitoring.
