How is Amazon sqs is different from Amazon SNS
Ans: SNS is fully managed messaging service for both application and application & application ans person for proper communication.
     SNS is using pushing mechanism, whenever the producer send the message then it will push the message to consumer. 
	 SQS is provides the queues of high throughput, system to system messaging.
	 SQS is using poll model, SQS decouples the producer and consumer, whenever producer send the message then message will be stored in the 
	 queuing system after that the consumer will poll the message from queuing system.
	 
Does Amazon SQS provide message ordering 
Ans: yes. By using FIFO (First in First out) we can mentain the messagig order. 

Does Amazon SQS guarantee delivery of messages 
Ans: Yes. with the help of FIFO messaging system we can.

How does SQS handles messages that can't be processed? 
Ans: whenever the producer send message it will stayed in queuing system if that message is not processed by any 
     consumer then that message will move to the dead letter queue. In DLQ further it will analysed, why this message is not processed.
	 
What is visibility time out 
Ans: It is the amount of time where the message will visible to a perticular consumer for processing that message after that it is visible to all consumers.

What is Amazon SQS long polling 
Ans: In this we can set time for polling the mesage from queue. whenever  the message is enterd in to queue twith in that period then the consumer will poll that message.
	 If we sued short polling microservice will continuously poll the messae even their is no messages. 
	 it is costly process each and every poll will be charged.
	 
Can i convert my existing standard queue to a FIFO queue? 
Ans: No. 

Do Amazon SQS FIFO queues supports multiple producers 
Ans: yes. multiple producers can send the messages to the queue but when we use FIFO then the messages will be in queue. 

How can i secure the message in the queue 
Ans: by encrypting the messages to protect in the queue

What is the difference between SSE-SQS and SSE-KMS
Ans:
1. SSE -SQS : In this type encryption will be done by server side
2. SSE-KMS: Here the customer produces the key and encrypt data. 

How long I can keep my mesages in SQS 
Ans: 60 sec to max 14 days we hac=ve to keep the messages in the queue.

How do i configure the maximum message size for SQS 
Ans: The message size from 1Byte to 256 KB size messages we can send.
 
Is there any size limit for the message in the SQS 
Ans: The message size from 1Byte to 256 KB size messages we can send. if it is more than 256KB the we can store the messages in java-extended client library to store messages and that also max 
What are dead letter queues gb size we can store.

Can you explain how u have integrated SQS in you previous project 
Ans: 
What is SNS 
Ans: SNS is simple notification service for application and application and between application and person for proper communication.
SNS is using push mechanism to deliver the messages to the consumers. 

What are topics and subscription in an SNS 
Ans: in this topics are: FIFO, standard
	 In this subsriptions are: E-mail, Messages, Http, Https, lamda, SQS
	 
What are the different delivery formats for receiving notifications 
Ans: HTTP, E-Mail, SQS, Json etc.

Can you explain a use case where SNS is linked with other service to push the to end users
Ans: 
What is KMS service 
Ans: KMS is Key management service in this customer is creating a master key for encryption of data.

Whats the difference between customer managed key and AWS managed keys
Ans: In customer managed key customer is creating a master key for encryption of data.
	 In aws managed key aws will take care of creating and encrypting data and key for decryption of data. 
