Q1) What is vpc?
Ans:VPC stands for Virtual Private Cloud.VPC is a logically isolated area of the AWS cloud where you can launch AWS resources in a virtual network.

Q2) What are the components of VPC?
Ans:VPC network services include:
		IPv4 and IPv6 address blocks
		Subnet creation
		Route tables
		Internet connectivity
		Elastic IP addresses (EIPs)
		Network/subnet security
	
Q3) What do you know about vpc peering?
Ans:A VPC peering connection is a networking connection between two VPCs that enables you to route traffic between them using private IPv4 addresses.
	Instances in either VPC can communicate with each other as if they are within the same network. You can create a VPC peering connection between 
	your own VPCs, or with a VPC in another AWS account.
	
Q4)What is stateful and stateless firewall?
Ans:Stateful: Means if any changes applying incoming rules automatically appy to the outgoing rues.
	Satteless: Means if any changes applying to incoming rule will not be apply to the outgoing rule. 

Q5)Does transitive peering is allowed in vpc?
Ans:Not allowed in VPC peering, here only 1:1 connection establish.

Q6)How are private instances accessed over the internet? 
Ans:wih the help of NAT gate way we acces the internet by private instances.
 
Q7)What is an elastic ip?
Ans:elastic IP is assigning the static IP address for an EC2 instances.

Q8)What is a vpc endpoint?
Ans:Enables private connectivity to services hosted in AWS, from within your VPC without using an Internet Gateway, 
	VPN, Network Address Translation (NAT) devices, or firewall proxies.

Q9)What is the difference between public and a private subnet? 
Ans:Public Subnet: Public subnet is accessed by other network outside the vpc
					It is directly connected to internet
	Private subnet: Private subnet is not accessed by other network outside vpc.
					It is not directly connectd to internet. By using NAT gate way we can acces the internet, that is also one way.
					
Q10)Difference between natGateway and IGW? 
Ans:NAT gate way is used to acces the private subnet to acces the internet 
	Internet gate way here the public subnets are directly access the internet. 

Q11)Difference between security group and NACL
Ans: 
							NACL (Network Access control list)									Security Group
								   
				1. firewall or protection for the subnet.							2. firewall to protect EC2 instances.
				
				2. These are stateless, 											3. These are stateful, which means any changes which are 
					meaning any change applied to an incoming rule 						applied to an incoming rule is automatically applied 
					isn’t automatically applied to an outgoing rule.					to a rule which is outgoing.
				
				3. It support allow rules and deny rules.							4. It support only allow rules.
				
Q12)How many subnets can you have with vpc?
Ans:Currently you can create 200 subnets per VPC.

Q13)How do you monitor your vpc 
Ans:By using VPC flow logs we can monitor the VPC.
	(VPC Flow Logs is used to capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your VPC.)

Q14)Can i change the private ip address of an instance while it is running 
Ans:No. The private IP address of an Amazon EC2 instance will never change. It will not change while an instance is running.

Q15)Can i assign multiple ip adress to an instance 
Ans:yes. Multiple IP addresses can be assigned and unassigned to network interfaces attached to running or stopped instances. 

Q16)Can an ec2 instance with in vpc in one region access the ec2 instance residing in vpc other region? 
Ans:Yes. Instances in one region can communicate with each other using Inter-Region VPC Peering

Q17)In which subnet you will launch databases? 
Ans:Private subnets

Q18)What is an EC2 instance 
Ans:EC2 instance is a virtual server for running applications on the Amazon Web Services (AWS).

Q19)What is the difference between terminating an instance and stopping an instance. 
Ans:
						Termination																			Stop Instance		
	When you terminate an EC2 instance, instance will no longer visible in aws environment		1. When you stop again we can start the instance whenever we want 									 				2. 	
	Any data that was stored locally on the instance will be lost. 								2. Any data that was stored locally on the instance will be remain.			
	Any attached EBS volumes will be detached and deleted.										3. Any attached EBS volumes will not be detached and deleted.		
	

Q20)What is ec2 root device volume used for 
Ans:When an EC2 instance is launched from an AMI, 
	the root device volume contains the image used to boot 
	the instance—mainly the operating system, all the configured services, and applications.

Q21)How to persist root device volume 
Ans:to persist the root device volume when creating EC2 instance in the Add Storage page, deselect the Delete On Termination check box for the root volume.

Q22)How to migrate an instance to another az 
Ans:

Q23)What is target group in load balancers
Ans:EC2, lambda functions, and IP adresses
	(A target group tells a load balancer where to direct traffic to : EC2 instances, fixed IP addresses; or AWS Lambda functions, amongst others.)

Q24)What is difference between ELB and autoscaling group 
Ans:							
								ELB( Elastic Load Balancer)												     autoscaling group	
								
	1. distributes the traffic load evenly across the available EC2 						1. Auto Scaling increases or decreases the no. of 								
		instances present in the target groups and they 									   available instances as per the scaling policy mentioned,
		connect the traffic to appropriate Target Groups.
		
	2. ELB also monitors the health of EC2 instances and routes the 						2. It is the work of Auto-Scaling to increase the instance 
		traffic to a healthy instance only.													   when the Threshold value is exceeded
		
	3. If it seens not healthy it will divert the request to the some other 				3. It remove the instances when they are not being utilized.
		available instance. 
	

Q25)Have u worked on load balancer 
Ans:yes. Choose an Application Load Balancer when you need a flexible feature set for your applications with HTTP and HTTPS traffic.
	Operating at the request level, Application Load Balancers provide advanced routing and visibility features targeted at application architectures, 
	including microservices and containers.
	
Q26)What is the use of health check feature in load balancer 
Ans: Load Balancers use active and passive health checks to determine whether a target is available to handle requests. 
	 By default, each load balancer node routes requests only to the healthy targets.

Q27)Can we change the public ip address of an running instance 
Ans:No. You cannot manually associate or disassociate a public IP (IPv4) address from your instance.

Q28)If you have lost the public key how do u connect to the instance
Ans:

Q29)What is an AMI 
Ans:An AMI is a template that contains the software configuration (operating system, application server, and applications) required to launch your instance.

Q30)Difference between AMI and instance snapshot
Ans:AMI is is backup of the entire EC2 instance that might have multiple attached volumes, exactly like virtual machines.
	Instance Snapshot is a point in time backup of specific volume.
	
Q31)What is autoscaling how it works 
Ans:Auto Scaling increases or decreases the no. of available instances as per the scaling policy mentioned, It remove the instances when they are not being utilized.
	It is the work of Auto-Scaling to increase the instance when the Threshold value is exceeded, 

Q32)Can instances in AWS can be vertically scaled 
Ans:Yes, To vertically scale an individual AWS EC2 instance up or down the instance has to be stopped, then the instance size changed, then restarted
	
Q33)What is horizontal scaling and vertical scaling 
Ans:Horizontal scaling means that you scale by adding more ec2 machines into your pool of resources whereas 
	Vertical scaling means that you scale by adding more power (CPU, RAM) to an existing ec2 machine.

Q34)What are thr different types of ec2 instance 
Ans:	General Purpose. 
		Compute-Optimized. 
		Memory-Optimized. 
		Storage-Optimized. 
		Accelerated Computing.

Q35)What are status checks in an instance 
Ans: 
					System Status check																			Instance status check
		1. These checks monitor the AWS systems   														1. These checks monitor your software and network 
		   required to use this instance and ensure they are functioning properly						   configuration for this instance
	 

Q36)How to add an ebs volume for an ec2 instance 
Ans:creat an instance, creat a volume(region specific) in volume tab, attach the volume to the instance, 
	the run the commands lsblk to see the attached volume,
	file -s /dev/xvdf to check the file system, 
	for formating mkfs -t xfs /dev/xvdf,
	craet a directory and 
	mount the volume here using mount command
	mount /dev/xvdf "path of the dir."  

Q37)When should I use ebs , efs and s3
Ans:			
					EBS 										EFS 														S3
			Hardly scalable									scalable 													scalable
			Block storage									object storage 												object storage
			Faster than efs and s3							faster than s3												slower
			Accessible only via the given ec2 machine		accessible via several ec2 machines and aws services 		can be publicaly accessible
			Is meant to be ec2 drive						good for shareable application and workloads 				good for storing backups
			File syaytem interface 							web and file sysytem interface								web interface

Q38)What are snapshots
Ans:EBS Snapshots are a point-in-time copy of your data, and can be used to enable disaster recovery, migrate data across regions and accounts, 
	and improve backup compliance.

Q39)What are AWS Secret
Ans:AWS Secrets Manager is a secrets management service that helps you protect access to your applications, services, and IT resources.

Q40)Which database are supported in AWS secrets
Ans:AWS Secrets Manager now transparently supports SSL connections 
	when rotating database secrets for Amazon RDS MySQL, MariaDB, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB



Q41) Differance between Application load balancer and network load balencer
Ans:
					Network Load balencer															Application load balencer

		1. This is the distribution of traffic based on network variables, 				1. This is the distribution of requests based on multiple variables, 
			such as IP address and destination ports.										from the network layer to the application layer.
			
		2. 	NLB — Layer 4 (TLS/TCP/UDP traffic), Static IPs.							2. This is a feature-filled L7 load balancer, 
																							HTTP, and HTTPS listeners only.
		3.  NLB just forward requests													3. ALB examines the contents of the HTTP 
																							request header to determine where to route the request. 
																							
Q43) What is launch template?
Ans: it is a feature which is used to reduce the step of creating the new insatnce by capturing all launching parameter 
	 within a one source. 
	 
Q44)What is AWS cetificates? 
Ans: AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) handles the complexity of creating, storing, and renewing 
	 public and private SSL/TLS X.509 certificates and keys that protect your AWS websites and applications.
	 
	 ACM certificates can be used to establish secure communications across the internet or within an internal network. 
	 
	 1. AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)—This service is for enterprise customers who need a secure web presence using TLS. 
		The most common application of this kind is a secure public website with significant traffic requirements.
		
	 2. ACM Private CA—This service is for enterprise customers building a public key infrastructure (PKI) 
		inside the AWS cloud and intended for private use within an organization.
		Certificates issued by a private CA cannot be used on the internet. For more information
		
Types of Load balancer:
	Application load balancer:
		 Used mainly for web application running http and https protocols.
		 Operates at request level.
		
	Network Load balancer:
		 Ultra-high Performance at very low latency.
		 Operates at connection level, routing traffic to targets with in VPC.
		 Can handle millions of requests per second.
		
	Classic load Balancer:
		 Used for applications that were built in existing EC2 classic env.
		 Operates both at connection & request level.
