Q1) What is cloud formation?
Ans: AWS CloudFormation is a service that helps you model and set up your AWS resources 
	 so that you can spend less time managing those resources and more time focusing on your applications that run in AWS.

Q2) what is stack?
Ans: A stack is a collection of AWS resources that you can manage as a single unit. 
	In other words, you can create, update, or delete a collection of resources by creating, updating, or deleting stacks.
	
Q3) What is Lambda function?
Ans:AWS Lambda lets you run code without provisioning or managing servers.
	
Q4) 
Ans: A trigger is a Lambda resource in another service that you configure to invoke your 
	 function in response to lifecycle events, external requests, or on a schedule.
	 Destination is a feature that provides visibility into Lambda function invocations and routes the execution results to AWS services,
	
Q5)difference between relational and non relational database
Ans:
		relational databade														
		
1. They work with structured data.

2. Relationships in the system have constraints, which promotes a high level of data integrity.

3. There are limitless indexing capabilities, which results in faster query response times.

4. They are excellent at keeping data transactions secure.

5. They provide the ability to write complex SQL queries for data analysis and reporting.

6. Their models can ensure and enforce business rules at the data layer adding a level of data integrity not found in a non-relational database.

7. They are table and row oriented.

8. They Use SQL (structured query language) for shaping and manipulating data, which is very powerful. 
	SQL database examples: MySql, Oracle, Sqlite, Postgres and MS-SQL.
	
	
	non relational database
	
	
1. They have the ability to store large amounts of data with little structure.

2. They provide scalability and flexibility to meet changing business requirements.

3. They provide schema-free or schema-on-read options.

4. They have the ability to capture all types of data “Big Data” including unstructured data.

5. They are document oriented.

5. NoSQL or non-relational databases examples:MongoDB, Apache Cassandra, Redis, Couchbase and Apache HBase.

6.They are best for Rapid Application Development.
